# Visualization Report

**Percentage of Denial by Race and Sex:**

For our first visualization, we depicted the percentage of denial by race and sex. We decided to depict this based on denial and not acceptance to evoke a stronger reaction to the heatmap. We included the applicant’s race on the y axis (American Indian or Native Alaskan, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander) and applicant’s sex on the x axis (female, male). Each sub-square was colored according to the percentage legend on the right side, with lower percentages in a lighter blue and higher in darker blue. We could have depicted this as a slightly confusing or messy pie chart or bar graph (or two separate ones), but we chose a heatmap, since it efficiently and effectively relayed the disparities not only by race and by gender but by each race and gender pairing. For example, we can readily see American Indian females had a higher rate of denial in comparison to American Indian males (37 percent vs 30 percent). Additionally, the colors make it easy to visualize the differences, making the data relationship evident before anyone even looks at the actual percentages. The title, labeled axis, and color legend to the right make the heatmap easy to understand and devoid of any further requirements of explanation or context along with it. 

The inspiration behind this visualization is that in our hypothesis tests, we saw that denials were correlated with race and income but not with sex. Therefore, it was worth looking at the breakdown of denials over race and sex. Interestingly, we roughly see that for minorities, females are denied more than males, while the opposite is true for white individuals. Given that white individuals make up a large part of the data set, this could have led to a lack of a significant difference in denials between males and females.

**Denial Rates by County in Rhode Island:**

For our other visualization, we depicted denial rates by county in the state of Rhode Island. It intuitively made sense to use a choropleth map since we were depicting different rates within a geographic region. Visually, the map was easy to interpret due to the distinct boundaries and colors of each county. It was interesting to see it depicted as a map to compare the differences and similarities of rates of distant vs close-by counties, especially since Rhode Island is such a small state and neighboring counties are pretty close by to each other. One would assume nearby counties would have similar rates, but that wasn’t always the case (even though the yellow and dark blue counties are right next to each other, they had the second greatest difference in loan rejections ).

One could do further analysis examining why and which factors between counties affected these loan rates. Using any other chart or graph (like pie or bar) would not have been as visually appealing, easy to interpret, or revealing of spatial data. The title and color legend make the choropleth easy to understand and devoid of any further requirements of explanation or context along with it. However, if we wanted to, we could add the names of the counties over each section, or even break down by city to dive deeper.
